The SawStop is a professional-grade table saw with an integrated emergency stop that fires whenever the spinning blade begins to make contact with skin.

The extension table for the saw has a router mount that allows the same surface to be used as a table saw or a router table.

The SawStop user manual is on [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nWG5DSlI5WmtwbGM Google Drive].

==Safety==

* Read and follow [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nWG5DSlI5WmtwbGM the manual] 
* Understand the basics of [http://www.startwoodworking.com/post/tablesaw-primer-ripping-and-crosscutting table saw operation]
* Don't crosscut using the fence - use the miter gauge (or a sled)
* Use the blade guard with splitter or the [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riving_knife riving knife]
* Use a push stick for narrow cuts
* Wear appropriate protection: safety glasses and possibly hearing and dust protection

==SawStop Safety Brake Feature==

Be aware of the SawStop's safety brake feature. It works by detecting an electrical charge draining from the blade assembly, so as soon as the spinning blade makes enough contact with a person's skin / blood, it drops the blade down and throws a block of aluminum into the blade to stop it. 

This can accidentally be activated when sawing wet or other electrically conductive materials or if the blade hits a nail or screw. 

Each activation costs about $75 for a new safety cartridge and saw blade. We set aside a budget to periodically replace these because accidents happen. But if we determine that the safety feature was activated without a good reason, we may ask the responsible party to cover the replacement cost.

== Router Table ==

The SawStop table has an integrated router mount. The mount is a Kreg 420 / PRS3000 and the router is a Porter-Cable 7500 Series.

There is no Kreg manual available but [https://www.canadianwoodworking.com/kreg-precision-router-table-lift this site] has some instructions.

Router manual on [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nVk1TR1YtMW5XdHM Google Drive].

