Manuals for most tools are available on [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nR3FycGdnUVJhZGs Google Drive].

== Design Software ==

VcarvePro - Easy Cad/Cam software , Post Processors for the Shapeoko, Shop Bot, and Tormach CNC

http://support.vectric.com/tutorials/V8/UserGroup2015Index.html

== High-Tech Fabrication ==

[[Laser Cutter|Universal Laser Cutter Model M360-60]] [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nOGF1ZzI4QWg4X1k [Manual]]

[[ShapeOko 2|ShapeOko2 3D Carving / CNC Milling Machine]]

[[Phlatformer|Phlatformer vacuum former]]

==[[3D Printers|3D Printers]]==

[[Wanhao Duplicator i3]] [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nMVdfWG01M3pxNlU [Manual]]

[[Wanhao Duplicator 4S|Wanhao Duplicator 4S]] [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nMVdfWG01M3pxNlU [Manual]]

[[Kossel_Clear|Kossel Clear]]

[[DeltaMaker|DeltaMaker]]

''''' Retired 3D Printers - available for hacking projects'''''

[[Solidoodle 2|Solidoodle 2]]

[[Solidoodle 2|Solidoodle 2]]

== Electronics ==

[[Hakko FX-888D Soldering Stations]] [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nYkVhUWdlS2ItZ0E [Manual]]

[[Goldstar OS-7020A|Oscilloscope (Goldstar OS-7020A – 20Mhz analog)]] [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nNjJrR0p2YlNXbUU [Manual]]

Logic Analyzers (HP)

Vacuum desoldering station

Hot air rework station

''''' Coming Soon '''''

New oscilloscope

== Metal Shop ==

Our metal fabrication shop started to operated in late 2015. The shop is only available to members and we require training and certification to operate the machinery. 

Appropriate safety gear is available and required for usage. Safety glasses are '''required''' whenever tools are in use in the shop - not just for the tool operator.

''''' Machine Shop Room '''''

[[Tormach CNC 770|Tormach Personal CNC 770]]

Grizzly G0695 Variable Speed Mill w/ Ram Head [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nLXNQOHpnQlhBLXc [Manual]]

Grizzly G0750G 12" x 36" Gunsmithing Lathe [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nZnlxYTgzR1JxSlE [Manual]]

Grizzly G0602 10" x 22" Lathe [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nbE5Qd2ZPMU4teTQ [Manual]]

''''' Wood Shop Area '''''

Northern Industrial BS-712N Horizontal Band Saw [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nZEtscC1wNURaOEU [Manual]]

Central Machinery 93762 Horizontal Bandsaw [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nbXVsenVUMVY2aVE [Manual]]

[[Central Machinery 91012 Metal Brake]] [https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B1BiUKpVQf5nb0QzZDh6aGxCTmM/view [Manual]]

Wire welder (incomplete and not set up yet)

''''' Storage Area '''''

We plan to set up a grinding area near the roll-up door.

Ryobi BGH827 8" Bench Grinder [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5ncU50ay1vSmRYT0U [Manual]]

Performance Tool W50001 6" Bench Grinder [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nUUJCaWxXX19USmc [Manual]]

Baldor 510 Grinder [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nUUowTXAtcFdXOGs [Manual]]

The two small grinders are on a bench in storage.

Central Machinery 7" x 10" Precision Mini Lathe [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5neU4tMTJMRlZOaFk [Manual]]

MicroLux True-Inch 7x16 Variable Speed Lathe [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nbUZoZWRVc2N3d0U [Manual]]

== Wood Shop ==

Our wood shop is undergoing a transformation throughout late 2015 and early 2016 to upgrade almost all of the large tools.
We require a basic orientation and checkout before using most of the tools in the shop.

The ShopBot CNC and SawStop table saw with attached router table require certification before use.

'''Please''' refer to the tool manual if you are at all uncertain on proper and safe usage.

Appropriate safety gear is available and '''required''' for tool usage. Safety glasses are '''required''' whenever shop tools are in use -- not just for the tool operator. Hearing protection is suggested for most tools but is '''required''' for the ShopBot and other routers.

''''' CNC Tools '''''

[[Shop_Bot|Shop Bot CNC Router]]

''''' Drill Presses '''''

Ryobi DP102L 10" Drill Press [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nMDdLX1RicGxTVFk [Manual]] - set up by band saws

Skill 3320 10" Benchtop Drill Press [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nTWxIYmRBTUJBUzA [Manual]] - set up by member storage

Central Machinery 38119 8" Drill Press [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5neUk5YUU4MUtKRFE [Manual]] - on red cart

''''' Saws '''''

[[SawStop|SawStop PCS31230 3HP 10" Professional Cabinet Saw w/ 52" Extension Table]] [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nWG5DSlI5WmtwbGM [Manual]] - main table saw, has router table mount

Ryobi BS904G 9" Band Saw [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nZXRkVUlNenAwTzg [Manual]] - benchtop

Delta BS100 9" Band Saw [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nd0hmQ1N6UlVkOHc [Manual]] - benchtop

Hitachi C8FB2 8.5″ Compound Miter Saw [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nWl9MX0RBTEVCbEk [Manual]]

Ryobi TS1301 Miter Saw [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5ncEV5bnVTVHNtUkk [Manual]] - on bench by member storage

Dewalt DW788 20" Scroll Saw [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5ndjJoQ3RyWFF5cHc [Manual]] - on stand by exit door

Rockwell RK7320 Blade Runner Tabletop Saw [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nSzRraDVZLVBhWWs [Manual]] - on red cart

''''' Sanders, Planers, Jointers '''''

Central Machinery 4" x 36" Belt and 6" Disc Sander [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nMU9nS3UwUlJ5TU0 [Manual]] - benchtop

Jet JSG-96 6" Belt / 9" Disc Sander [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nTVd5OHdsRF9yOHM [Manual]] - on stand by ShopBot

Dewalt DW735X 13" Planer [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5naU9HRW1KX0RRNFE [Manual]] - on stand by exit door

''''' Miscellaneous '''''

Jet JCDC-1.5 Cyclone Dust Collector [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nSDZTWWd0MUtNVFU [Manual]]

''''' Coming online in early 2016 '''''

Jet JDP-17 17" Drill Press

== Hand Tools ==

Appropriate safety gear is available. Safety glasses are '''required''' for tool use. 

In general, all of these tools should be used within the wood shop area and not within the "clean" areas of the space.

When using powered hand tools outside of the wood shop area, the tool operator '''must''' take responsibility for ensuring that everyone present wears appropriate safety gear. Also be aware of where any debris is being cast and make sure to clean up after yourself.

''''' Tools '''''

Porter Cable 557 Plate (Biscuit) Joiner [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nbmNhQno5aUlyVzg [Manual]] - red cart

Black and Decker FS3000ROS Firestorm 5" Random Orbit Sander [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nWmUzaktrYnlqUDQ [Manual]] - red cart

Skilsaw 5480 7-1/4" Circular Saw [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nVzdSdDd0UDFmdGc [Manual]] - green box on bench in member storage

Ryobi RJ165V Reciprocating Saw (Sawzall) - shelves outside metal shop

Skil 4395 Jigsaw - shelves outside metal shop

Ryobi R165 Router and Router Table

Dremel 3000 Rotary Tool (two sets) 

Dremel 4000 Rotary Tool (five sets)

Dremel Multi-Max MM30 (two sets)

Assorted hand tools

== Craft / Art ==

[[Silhouette Portrait]]

[[Jen-Ken Kiln]]

== Sewing ==
Sewing Machines

Husqvarna 1250 Embroidery Machine [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nVEVPaGFQTnQxUU0 [Manual]]

Husqvarna Viking Huskylock 905 Serger [https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B1BiUKpVQf5nOG1SZWU2YjhYV0k [Manual]]

